---
title: "Quitting My Biggest Addiction"
description: "Why I am disabling youtube to 
date: 2025-03-02
tags: ["General"]
draft: false
---

# What is my addiction

The word *addiction* usually brings some pretty graphic mental images. Thoughts of heroin addicts usually seem to come to my mind. I am not strongly addicted to a physical substance though. Well, I am a little addicted to coffee but that is mild, and a story for another time. Like most people in 2025, I am addicted to digital entertainment which provides quick dopamine hits with no true substance. Being one on the end of the older side of Gen Z, social media and other digital entertainment platforms were starting to catch fire during my early, impressionable teenage years. I was unfortunatly exposed to alot of it, and have wated too much time on these trying to get a quick fix of dopamine while just sitting in a chair or laying on my bed. Be it by luck, I consider myself lucky to have avoided the common viruses that my generation face online - short form content. Apps like TikTok and instagram seem to have my fellow Gen Z'ers just as, or more addicted than myself to online entertainment. I think I considered myself to 'anti-social' to join these social media apps. Lucky because I think these apps just make people less social today. I think in many ways, I was ahead of the digital addiction curb, becuase I think my internet addiction began in the early 2010's. My internet addiction started with video games and YouTube. Being a pre-teen and teenage boy, I loved playing video games. Too much. This was around the time that multiplayer games were getting very popular, with games like the early Call of Duty's, and youtube was also starting to take off. Youtube turned from something that had a few viral videos to a social media site, where there were niche content creators putting up regular content. I was at the intersection of loving to play video games, and loving to watch other people play video games, way before twitch.tv existed. I would spend all of my free time either playing video games, or watching other people play games. And when I say all day, I mean all day. I would frequently throw up from being motion sick from just watching a screen all day. Although my internet addiction is now not purely youtube, I think this is where it started and continues to be a big issue for me.

# Why am I quitting

I have been able to cut down substantially on my non-important internet consuption. But youtube still seems to be a reoccuring issue, and a trigger to start off a very unproductive day. I think the issue with youtube is that there is alot of good information, but also alot of bad information at the same time. So you have a reason to go (the good information) and a reason to stay (the bad mind-zapping content). I think reddit operated in a very similar way. You go looking for quick bits of niche information or news, and you end up scrolling forever. Now adays, I am not watching videos of people playing video games on youtube. I no longer play that much video games either now. For me, my hours get sucked away by watching hours of semi-informational content. I will start a youtube session with either trying to learn something quick, or get view a demo of something. I have been programming for a while, and that is my career, so when I am trying to learn something new about a program or want to see some one use a feature in a demonstration, I go to youtube. The issue is that after that short demo is over, I just keep going. I will either click on a recommended video, or will have a brief thought about something else that I want to watch a video on. I still loose many hours a day on youtube. Another issue with youtube, specifically with learning a skill, is that watching someone do something is different than doing it. More knowledge is retained by actually doing the thing. I have probably tried to teach myself the programming language 'JavaScript' 15 different times. I would do a video course, maybe do an exercise or two at most, then forget what I had learned because I did not regularly use it. In almost of trying to learn a new skill. I think it would have been better for me to just try something out, and if I need help to seek out documentaion instead. So that is what I am going to do when I have issues now, just go to written official sources of information. Not endlessly watch courses that are tought by someone who just watched someone else do something.

# How am I quitting

Quitting youtube has honestly been a long process that I am hopeing now to finally put the nail in the coffin. I have known I have been addicted to watching youtube videos for along time. In high school, my first attempt at quitting youtube was to delete the youtube app from my phone. I did this countless times, but usually went back to reinstalling that app until it stuck. I would still watch youtube, but I forced myself to watch it through safari on my iphone instead. The safari version of youtube used to be much clunkier than that app so it motivated me to watch less, but I still watched alot. Wayyyy to much still. My next iteration of trying to quit my addiction was to block youtube.com on my phone so I could not watch it through safari either. On my iPhone, I disabled it through the parental controls/screen time settings so it would block the site when I tried to pull it up in the browser. Again, I would at times still become weak and disable this feature, watch too much until I felt like shit, then re-enable the feature blocking the site. I did this until it stuck, I think sometime in college. That was not the kill-shot I needed though. I spend alot of time on my computer, I work from home and have a tech job, so I am always on a PC. So youtube on my desktop was the next frontier I became attached to. It is so easy to get bored doing some work or homework and to switch tabs to youtube and start watching. I still spend countless hours watching youtube at my desktop. Usually falling victim for "going just to learn something quick" then ending up learning about a random topic I have no care in the world about. In my next attempt to stop youtube, I installed plugins to my desktop that made it less easy to get lost in rabit holes. I disabled the frontpage of youtube, so now my frontpage is blank. No videos are shown. I also disabled recommendations. The only way for me to find a topic about a video is for me to search for it. I still spend too much time wasted. Either by watching content about pops into my head like 'what is it like living in San Diego' or by just watching high level tutorials and never actually learning the skills with my hands, like in my programming example from earlier. So now I am just done. I will be installing an a plugin which blocks youtube completely from my desktop. There are many free ones on the chrome plugin store if you are also curious in doing the same. I have determined that if I need to learn something. I have to find it elsewhere. This should not be too hard as I feel like most people making videos about things are actually not the experts in the field. They just read documenation from the experts and made a video about it. So that is how I paln to beat my addiction, blocking youtube completely on my desktop. I will make this stick. I blocked it starting Tuesday this week and in week points of my day have already unblocked it to watch a video similarly to how I did in the old days on my phone. But I am hoping that publishing it here and my drive to succeed will be enough of a force to kill this demon for all.


# Will I ever go back?

I don't know if I will every go back to watching youtube. I do think it is a great source of information. Maybe if I learn how take a control myself after taking a break, or maybe I will just break the habit and it will be less interesting to me. I am thinking of this like over eating. I use to also overeat. I am down almost 60 pounds from my max weight. Today I am able to moderate my eating fairly well with things like logging my weight and tracking calories. I will get write a story about my weight loss journey another time. So we will see if I ever go back to watching youtube. I will keep you posted here on my blog.

Thanks for reading - catch you next time,
Ross