---
title: "Hello World"
description: "My first ever blog post"
date: 2025-02-23
tags: ["General"]
image: "../assets/blog-images/2025-posts/hello-world-image.png"
draft: false
---

# Hello World

Hi!

My name is Ross, and welcome to my blog.
Today is the 23rd of February, 2025 and I have been planning on making this blog for a very, very long time. I seem to always be stuck in idea mode and never in execution mode, which is why I am finally commiting to establishing this blog. As far back as I can remember, I have always had big ideas and dreams for succuss, but they always just stayed dreams. I truely think that I have some billion dollar ideas, but a $100 dollar execution. It feels like I am always doing reasearch on how to build something, but never actually hammering. That WILL all change. I will start executing, starting with this website. I am going to commit to writing a blog post every week for the rest of the year and publishing it here. I don't know if anyone will read this, but if you do, welcome. I hope you stay and watch my story unfold, and hopefully it will inspire you to do something similar.

## About Me

Truthfully, I am already doing pretty well compared to my peers, but still less than I hoped for by this age. I am 26 years old. I have a two bachelors degrees, and currently have a tech job that pays 100k. Not bad considering the that I already make more than the median household alone in the United States, while still being in my mid 20's. I am also very happily married with a wife that will have a doctorate degree, soonish, and will be making a similar amount to what I am currently making. We will have an upper class income before age 30 and will be set up for a very nice life. White picket fence, a few kids, a dog, ..etc. I don't want this to come off as complaining about this not being enough, I just always thought I would be different. Maybe it is still just me being optimistic, with child-like dreams, but I still feel like I can achieve more. I want to make a change in the world. When someone says success in the modern day, it typically makes people thing of money. You may think I am saying I want more money, but that is not it. Yeah, sometimes I daydream about having nice things, but I have already realized that as soon as I have something nice, I don't really care about it, and in the end, don't really need it. Easy examples of this are clothing, and jewlery. Typically examples of flaunting money becuase it is always on you when you are out around other people. I used to really want a gold chain after seeing all the rappers showing them off online. I have spent 10s of hours maybe even hundreds watching videos about gold and diamond jewlery, just imagining about having one. I finally got a high quality silver chain which is gold plated. It is pretty high quality and looks exactly like a white gold chain. But as soon as I got it, I only wore it a hand full of times when out in public and it now only sits in my drawer. I can say the same about shoes and clothing. I used to crave having the expensive shoes like Yeezy's and Jordan's and eventually got a few of them at a VERY high premium. After wearing them a few times, they they become old and I would want the next one. Chasing the next greatest materialistic item is a vicious cycle. Now adays, I usually don't buy myself materialistic things. I have probably only bought myself a few shirts in the last couple of years and the max price tag for one of those was probably $30. I still sometimes day dream about getting a new truck, but I know I don't need one becuase I probably drive under 3000k miles a year (I work from home).

## Why I want More

Like I said I am already set up for for a pretty kushy life assuming no crazy events happen, but my family does not have the same tragectory. I would like to be financially free to be able to help my family out and travel with them. That is the big goal. I love my family to death, but they have some issues. Some of these issues are self imposed, and some of these issues were just delt by life. None of my family seems to be very financially literate. When I was a kid, I got very mixed signals about my family's finanical status. Some times my mom would say we have to shop at discount stores for food or we could not afford something, but at the same time, during most of my childhood my family had a ski/wakeboard boat. They still have the issue today of spending too much on cars and things other materialistic things that I don't think that they need. I think both my parents realize they are not prepared to retire in a few years so my dad over works to try to make up for it, but they have never fixed the root of the issue - overspending. Overworking has been rough on my dad, he drinks too much than he should and he is heavier than what is healthy. I am worried that this will lead to negative health consequences is the near future. My sisters have also picked up on over spending, like almost all Americans unfortunately. They don't buy big ticket items like cars yet, but they buy alot of small stuff. One of my sisters also has Multiple Sclerosis, which I am worried will cut her working years short. Can't see any of my three sisters every buying a house unless they marry well. I sometimes think to myself, why would I want to help my family when they can't handle themselves financially? It almost feels like trying to give some money to a homeless person that you suspect will spend your money on drugs, but hoping that they can still make a positive change. I still think that I can break through to my family. So this is the main reason I want to be more successful, yes it is partly about the money, but not to buy flashy things for myself. Unfortunately money is a good problem solver. I also have dreams of helping my locally community but that would be the goal after becoming financially independent, more to come on that later.

## About This Blog

So that is is my main goal, to become financially independent to be able to help my family and travel. I hope this blog is good documentation of my journey, for myself, or for others that my have similar goals and aspirations. I will be posting once a week here every Sunday for the rest of 2025 and hopefully beyond.

Catch you next time,
Ross